Docs: Update prerequisites for WSL and Python 3 (#3598)
aiidateam/aiida-core: docs/source/install/prerequisites.rst

       Create a ``.sh`` file with the lines above, but *without* ``sudo``.
       Make the file executeable, i.e., type::

         chmod +x /path/to/file.sh

       Then type::

         sudo visudo

       And add the line::

         <username> ALL=(root) NOPASSWD: /path/to/file.sh

       Replacing ``<username>`` with your Ubuntu username.
       This will allow you to run *only* this specific ``.sh`` file with ``root`` access (without password), without lowering security on the rest of your system.

#. There is a `known issue <https://github.com/Microsoft/WSL/issues/856>`_ in WSL Ubuntu 18.04 where the timezone is not configured correctly out-of-the-box, which may cause problem for the database.
   The following command can be used to re-configure the time zone::

     sudo dpkg-reconfigure tzdata

#. The file open limit may need to be raised using ``ulimit -n 2048`` (default is 1024), when running tests.
   You can check the limit by using ``ulimit -n``.

   .. hint:: This may need to be run every time the system starts up.

It may be worth considering adding some of these commands to your ``~/.bashrc`` file, since some of these settings may reset upon reboot.

.. note::

>     **For developers using WSL**: For speed and self-consistency considerations, WSL 2 is recommended.

Author: ```suggestion
    **For developers using WSL**: For speed considerations WSL 2 is recommended.
```

>     WSL 2 introduces a full-blown VM for your Linux distributions, meaning faster I/O-operations and no need for Windows "support" services (like RabbitMQ).

Author: ```suggestion
    WSL 2 introduces a full-blown VM for your Linux distributions, meaning faster I/O-operations and no need for Windows "support" services (like RabbitMQ).
    In other words, WSL 2 should provide a more self-contained installation and running experience.
```

    Remove the mentioned option from the file ``/usr/libexec/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-env`` and restart the server.
    If you still have trouble getting RabbitMQ to run, please refer to the detailed instructions provided on the `website of RabbitMQ itself for generic Unix systems <https://www.rabbitmq.com/install-generic-unix.html>`_.

.. _details_wsl:

Windows Subsystem for Linux (Ubuntu)
====================================

> 

Reviewer: Does RabbitMQ work in WSL2? When I set up my current system (~August), RMQ on WSL1 definitely didn't work properly, so I'm not sure if this note should be kept.

Reviewer 2: This is 

> 
> 
> Does RabbitMQ work in WSL2? When I set up my current system (~August), RMQ on WSL1 definitely didn't work properly, so I'm not sure if this note should be kept.

Probably works only with WSL2 as most things should work, after all, it is effectively a virtual machine. With WSL1 I have to use RMQ from the windows side.

Author: Okay. I can keep it in. I removed it because I have installed it on WSL1 (version 1909 build 18363.476) and 2 (latest version on Insider slow ring). And it all worked, except for some transport tests.

       Replacing ``<username>`` with your Ubuntu username.
       This will make you able to run *only* this specific ``.sh`` file with ``root`` access, i.e., not passing a password, without lowering security on your system.

#. There is a `known issue <https://github.com/Microsoft/WSL/issues/856>`_ in WSL Ubuntu 18.04 where the timezone is not configured correctly out-of-the-box, which may cause problem for the database.
   The following command can be used to re-configure the time zone::

     sudo dpkg-reconfigure tzdata

#. The file open limit may need to be raised using ``ulimit -n 2048`` (default is 1024), when running tests.
   You can check the limit by using ``ulimit -n``.

   .. hint:: This may need to be run every time the system starts up.

It may be worth considering adding some of these commands to your ``~/.bashrc`` file, since some of these settings may reset upon reboot.

.. hint::

    The Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) 2 is recommended.
    It is available from Windows 10 builds 18917 or higher.
    For more information, see `the WSL documentation <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/wsl2-install>`_.

> 

Reviewer 2: Maybe I am a bit conservative with this, but I feel that we should not advertise the user to try WSL 2 immediately since the feature is not fully launched on stable windows builds yet. Things may not work out of the box, for example, accessing Window/Linux services using `localhost` (e.g. open Jupyter Notebook served inside). The gain of having a real Linux kernel and faster IO may not have huge impact on daily use. 
We should clearly state that the instructions apply to WSL 1 or WSL 2 in the documentation though.

Author: This is completely fair. I will state however that running `jupyter notebook --no-browser` in WSL Ubuntu works perfectly and `localhost:8888` is accessible using WSL1 on Windows 10 version 1909 build 18363.476 :+1:

    Remove the mentioned option from the file ``/usr/libexec/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-env`` and restart the server.
    If you still have trouble getting RabbitMQ to run, please refer to the detailed instructions provided on the `website of RabbitMQ itself for generic Unix systems <https://www.rabbitmq.com/install-generic-unix.html>`_.

.. _details_wsl:

Windows Subsystem for Linux (Ubuntu)
====================================

The guide for Ubuntu above can generally be followed, but there are a few things to note:

> #. It may be neccessary to install and start the `Windows native RabbitMQ <https://www.rabbitmq.com/install-windows.html>`_.

Reviewer 3: Like this, this sentence is confusing - when is it necessary and when isn't it necessary?

Author: I agree. Unfortunately it reflects my ignorance as well: I am not sure when it is or isn't necessary. And neither does it seem are @zhubonan or @greschd as far as I can deduce from the previous discussion.
For me with my setup, this is not necessary, but it is for them with their setup.

#. Linux services under WSL are not started automatically.

>    To start the PostgreSQL and RabbitMQ-server services, type the command below in the terminal::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   To start the PostgreSQL and RabbitMQ-server services, type the commands below in the terminal::
```

     sudo service postgresql start
     sudo service rabbitmq-server start

   .. tip::

       These services may be run at startup *without* passing a password in the following way:

       Create a ``.sh`` file with the lines above, but *without* ``sudo``.
       Make the file executeable, i.e., type::

         chmod +x /path/to/file.sh

       Then type::

         sudo visudo

       And add the line::

         <username> ALL=(root) NOPASSWD: /path/to/file.sh

       Replacing ``<username>`` with your Ubuntu username.

>        This will make you able to run *only* this specific ``.sh`` file with ``root`` access, i.e., not passing a password, without lowering security on your system.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
       This will allow you to run *only* this specific ``.sh`` file with ``root`` access (without password), without lowering security on the rest of your system.
```

#. There is a `known issue <https://github.com/Microsoft/WSL/issues/856>`_ in WSL Ubuntu 18.04 where the timezone is not configured correctly out-of-the-box, which may cause problem for the database.
   The following command can be used to re-configure the time zone::

     sudo dpkg-reconfigure tzdata

#. The file open limit may need to be raised using ``ulimit -n 2048`` (default is 1024), when running tests.
   You can check the limit by using ``ulimit -n``.

   .. hint:: This may need to be run every time the system starts up.

It may be worth considering adding some of these commands to your ``~/.bashrc`` file, since some of these settings may reset upon reboot.

> .. hint::

Reviewer 3: Probably this should be written at the very top?

    Installing `Ubuntu <https://www.microsoft.com/en-gb/p/ubuntu/9nblggh4msv6?source=lp&activetab=pivot:overviewtab>`_ instead of the version specific applications, will let you have the latest LTS version.

> .. note::

Reviewer 3: Is this is specific to WSL?
in any case, this should probably go in the developer wiki
https://github.com/aiidateam/aiida-core/wiki/Development-environment
